.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Ashlen <eurydice@riseup.net>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.Dd December 14, 2022
.Dt CERT-MAINTENANCE 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm cert-maintenance
.Nd Obtain and renew TLS certificates
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cert-maintenance
.Op Fl hNO
.Op Ar domain_name ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
wraps around
.Xr acme-client 1
and
.Xr ocspcheck 8
so that multiple certificates can be obtained and/or refreshed seamlessly.
To do this, at least one
.Ar domain_name
must be passed as an argument, and each
.Ar domain_name
must be appropriately represented by a block in
.Xr acme-client.conf 5 .
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print basic usage information and exit.
.It Fl N
When used with
.Fl O ,
a nonce value is excluded from the OCSP request, and validation of the nonce
value in the OCSP response never happens either. This is a security risk and
nonces should always be used unless the server lacks support for OCSP nonces,
see
.Xr ocspcheck 8 .
.It Fl O
Retrieve and save an OCSP response such that it may be used for OCSP stapling.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa /etc/acme-client.conf
The configuration file for
.Xr acme-client 1 .
.Pp
.It Pa /etc/ssl/domain_name.crt
.It Pa /etc/ssl/domain_name.ocsp
When
.Fl O
is used, these files are consulted because
.Xr ocspcheck 8
requires a PEM formatted file to read from and
.Nm
needs a file to write the OCSP response to.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To obtain and/or refresh TLS certificates for example.com and example.net,
saving the OCSP response for each:
.Pp
.Dl # cert-maintenance -O example.com example.net
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr acme-client 1 ,
.Xr acme-client.conf 5 ,
.Xr ocspcheck 8
.Sh AUTHORS
Written and maintained by
.An Ashlen Aq Mt eurydice@riseup.net .
