.Dd April 12, 2023
.Dt TRANSLATE_WG_CONF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm translate_wg_conf
.Nd translate WireGuard configuration files to other formats
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm translate_wg_conf
.Op Fl hr
.Op Fl m Ar mtu
.Op Fl t Ar rtable
.Ar wireguard_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility processes a WireGuard configuration file. Currently, it can
convert the input into output suitable for a
.Xr hostname.if 5
file.
This is designed with later use of
.Xr netstart 8
in mind.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print usage information and exit.
.It Fl m Ar mtu
Declare a Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU). By default, a WireGuard
interface has an MTU of 1420 (this is 80 less than a typical MTU of
1500).
.It Fl r
Add necessary
.Xr route 8
commands to the output so that the WireGuard interface holds the default
routes.
.It Fl t Ar rtable
Declare that the routing table
.Ar rtable
will be used to exchange traffic between peers rather than the default
.Xr rtable 4 .
One use of this (assuming the interface is in the default routing
domain) is to make sure that when the tunnel loses connectivity, the
network connection fails safe rather than open.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Parse the WireGuard file and print the translated contents to standard
output.
.Pp
.Dl $ translate_wg_conf wireguard-file.conf
.Pp
In the output, add routing commands and include a directive instructing
.Xr wg 4
to use routing table 1 to exchange traffic between peers. Redirect the
output to
.Ar hostname.wg0
and bring the interface up with
.Xr netstart 8 .
.Pp
.Dl # translate_wg_conf -rt 1 wireguard-file.conf > /etc/hostname.wg0
.Dl # sh /etc/netstart wg0
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rtable 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr netstart 8
.Sh AUTHORS
Written and maintained by
.An Ashlen Aq Mt eurydice@riseup.net .
